.Dd February 9, 2026
.Dt ELMTERM 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ELMterm
.Nd transport-agnostic terminal for ELM-compatible OBD-II adapters
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar url-string
.Op Fl -timeout Ar seconds
.Op Fl -prompt Ar text
.Op Fl -terminator Ar mode
.Op Fl -history Ar path
.Op Fl -history-depth Ar count
.Op Fl -config Ar path
.Op Fl -theme Ar light|dark
.Op Fl -hexdump
.Op Fl -plain
.Op Fl -timestamps
.Op Fl -log Ar path
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
connects to serial or TCP ELM-compatible interfaces and provides an interactive
REPL with protocol-aware annotations for OBD-II traffic.
.Sh ARGUMENTS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ar url-string
Connection URL, for example
.Dq tty:///dev/cu.usbserial-XXXX
or
.Dq tcp://192.168.0.10:35000 .
.El
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl -timeout Ar seconds
Connection timeout. Default: 12.
.It Fl -prompt Ar text
Prompt shown in interactive mode. Default:
.Dq > .
.It Fl -terminator Ar mode
Terminator appended to commands. Supports
.Dq cr ,
.Dq lf ,
.Dq crlf ,
.Dq none ,
.Dq hex:...
or literal text.
.It Fl -history Ar path
Path to persistent history file.
.It Fl -history-depth Ar count
Maximum number of history entries. Default: 500.
.It Fl -config Ar path
Path to JSON configuration file. Defaults to
.Pa ~/.elmterm.json
when present.
.It Fl -theme Ar light|dark
Force color theme.
.It Fl -hexdump
Print incoming frames as ASCII plus hexadecimal dump.
.It Fl -plain
Disable analyzer and annotation pipeline.
.It Fl -timestamps
Prefix RX and TX lines with ISO8601 timestamps.
.It Fl -log Ar path
Write communication log output to file.
.It Fl h , Fl -help
Show help output.
.El
.Sh META COMMANDS
Inside the REPL, meta commands start with a colon:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ic :help
Show available commands.
.It Ic :history Op Ar n
Show the most recent history entries.
.It Ic :clear
Clear terminal output.
.It Ic :analyzer Op Ic on|off
Toggle protocol analyzer annotations.
.It Ic :save
Persist in-memory history immediately.
.It Ic :quit
Exit the REPL.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Pa ~/.elmterm.history
Default persistent command history file.
.It Pa ~/.elmterm.json
Optional JSON configuration file.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal -offset indent
ELMterm tty:///dev/cu.usbserial-113010893810
ELMterm tcp://192.168.0.10:35000 --timestamps
.Ed
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
